README.md, before:

# cloud-native-monitoring-app
<img width="568" alt="image" src="https://github.com/134420173-myseneca/cloud-native-monitoring-app/assets/39117847/76ce0bd1-5d71-44c2-9582-0fa205cfabae">

## **Part 1: Deploying the Flask application locally**

### **Step 1: Clone the code**

Clone the code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/134420173-myseneca/cloud-native-monitoring-app.git
```

### **Step 2: Install dependencies**

The application uses the **`psutil`** and **`Flask`, Plotly, boto3** libraries. Install them using pip:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### **Step 3: Run the application**

To run the application, navigate to the root directory of the project and execute the following command:

```
python3 app.py
```
if running app on  cloud9 aws instance open port in security group for cloud instance and tru to access app with cloud9 instance public ip with port 50000 e.g http://34.207.216.95:5000
or
This will start the Flask server on **`localhost:5000`**. Navigate to [http://localhost:5000/](http://localhost:5000/) on your browser to access the application.


## **Part 2: Dockerizing the Flask application**

### **Step 1: Create a Dockerfile**

Create a **`Dockerfile`** in the root directory of the project with the following contents:

```
# Use the official Python image as the base image
FROM python:3.9-slim-buster

# Set the working directory in the container
WORKDIR /app

# Copy the requirements file to the working directory
COPY requirements.txt .

RUN pip3 install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

# Copy the application code to the working directory
COPY . .

# Set the environment variables for the Flask app
ENV FLASK_RUN_HOST=0.0.0.0

# Expose the port on which the Flask app will run
EXPOSE 5000

# Start the Flask app when the container is run
CMD ["flask", "run"]
```

### **Step 2: Build the Docker image**

To build the Docker image, execute the following command:

```
docker build -t <image_name> .
```

### **Step 3: Run the Docker container**

To run the Docker container, execute the following command:

```
docker run -p 5000:5000 <image_name>
```

This will start the Flask server in a Docker container on **`localhost:5000`**. Navigate to [http://localhost:5000/](http://localhost:5000/) on your browser to access the application.

## **Part 3: Pushing the Docker image to ECR**

### **Step 1: Create an ECR repository**

Create an ECR repository using Python:

```
import boto3

# Create an ECR client
ecr_client = boto3.client('ecr')

# Create a new ECR repository
repository_name = 'my-ecr-repo'
response = ecr_client.create_repository(repositoryName=repository_name)

# Print the repository URI
repository_uri = response['repository']['repositoryUri']
print(repository_uri)
```

### **Step 2: Push the Docker image to ECR**

Push the Docker image to ECR using the push commands on the console:


Retrieve an authentication token and authenticate your Docker client to your registry.
Use the AWS CLI:
```
aws ecr get-login-password --region us-east-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 063129952770.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
```
Note: If you receive an error using the AWS CLI, make sure that you have the latest version of the AWS CLI and Docker installed.
Build your Docker image using the following command. For information on building a Docker file from scratch see the instructions here . You can skip this step if your image is already built:
```
docker build -t my_monitoring_app_image .
```
After the build completes, tag your image so you can push the image to this repository:
```
docker tag my_monitoring_app_image:latest 063129952770.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/my_monitoring_app_image:latest
```
Run the following command to push this image to your newly created AWS repository:
```
docker push 063129952770.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/my_monitoring_app_image:latest
```

## **Part 4: Creating an EKS cluster and deploying the app using Python**

Commit message:

Update README.md to create ecr repo manually

README.md, after:

# cloud-native-monitoring-app
<img width="568" alt="image" src="https://github.com/134420173-myseneca/cloud-native-monitoring-app/assets/39117847/76ce0bd1-5d71-44c2-9582-0fa205cfabae">

## **Part 1: Deploying the Flask application locally**

### **Step 1: Clone the code**

Clone the code from the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/134420173-myseneca/cloud-native-monitoring-app.git
```

### **Step 2: Install dependencies**

The application uses the **`psutil`** and **`Flask`, Plotly, boto3** libraries. Install them using pip:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### **Step 3: Run the application**

To run the application, navigate to the root directory of the project and execute the following command:

```
python3 app.py
```
if running app on  cloud9 aws instance open port in security group for cloud instance and tru to access app with cloud9 instance public ip with port 50000 e.g http://34.207.216.95:5000
or
This will start the Flask server on **`localhost:5000`**. Navigate to [http://localhost:5000/](http://localhost:5000/) on your browser to access the application.


## **Part 2: Dockerizing the Flask application**

### **Step 1: Create a Dockerfile**

Create a **`Dockerfile`** in the root directory of the project with the following contents:

```
# Use the official Python image as the base image
FROM python:3.9-slim-buster

# Set the working directory in the container
WORKDIR /app

# Copy the requirements file to the working directory
COPY requirements.txt .

RUN pip3 install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

# Copy the application code to the working directory
COPY . .

# Set the environment variables for the Flask app
ENV FLASK_RUN_HOST=0.0.0.0

# Expose the port on which the Flask app will run
EXPOSE 5000

# Start the Flask app when the container is run
CMD ["flask", "run"]
```

### **Step 2: Build the Docker image**

To build the Docker image, execute the following command:

```
docker build -t <image_name> .
```

### **Step 3: Run the Docker container**

To run the Docker container, execute the following command:

```
docker run -p 5000:5000 <image_name>
```

This will start the Flask server in a Docker container on **`localhost:5000`**. Navigate to [http://localhost:5000/](http://localhost:5000/) on your browser to access the application.

## **Part 3: Pushing the Docker image to ECR**

### **Step 1: Create an ECR repository**

Create an ECR repository using Python:

```
import boto3

# Create an ECR client
ecr_client = boto3.client('ecr')

# Create a new ECR repository
repository_name = 'my-ecr-repo'
response = ecr_client.create_repository(repositoryName=repository_name)

# Print the repository URI
repository_uri = response['repository']['repositoryUri']
print(repository_uri)
```
or

##### Create an ECR repository manually with below command

```
# Replace 'my-ecr-repo' with your desired repository name
aws ecr create-repository --repository-name my-ecr-repo

```

### **Step 2: Push the Docker image to ECR**

Push the Docker image to ECR using the push commands on the console:


Retrieve an authentication token and authenticate your Docker client to your registry.
Use the AWS CLI:
```
aws ecr get-login-password --region us-east-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 063129952770.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
```
Note: If you receive an error using the AWS CLI, make sure that you have the latest version of the AWS CLI and Docker installed.
Build your Docker image using the following command. For information on building a Docker file from scratch see the instructions here . You can skip this step if your image is already built:
```
docker build -t my_monitoring_app_image .
```
After the build completes, tag your image so you can push the image to this repository:
```
docker tag my_monitoring_app_image:latest 063129952770.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/my_monitoring_app_image:latest
```
Run the following command to push this image to your newly created AWS repository:
```
docker push 063129952770.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/my_monitoring_app_image:latest
```

## **Part 4: Creating an EKS cluster and deploying the app using Python**
